---
title: "Bitcoin & Blockchain"
excerpt: "The easy way to start learning about cryptocurrencies."
---

## What about Bitcoin & blockchain? {#ch:Bitcoin}

We stand at the verge of a technological revolution that will
fundamentally change the way we live our lives, perhaps even without us
being aware of all of it. The immense scale, scope and complexity of
this transformation will be unlike anything we have experienced before,
and we cannot yet be confident how this scenario is going to play out.
One could argue this technological revolution will have the same impact
as the internet had if not more.

{: .notice--info}
:bulb: *Think of all the applications that make use of the internet (what does
not?). Think about the daily lives of people around the world and about
the apps we all use daily. For example, think about the impact e-mail
had historically. First, it took at least five days to send a letter
from Switzerland to South Africa, with the invention of e-mail this
duration was instantly reduced to a mere couple of seconds. The services
provided by the internet have propelled forward its rates of
adoption.[^1]*

Blockchain and distributed ledger technology will have a dramatic impact
on business and society, by providing a secure, direct way of exchanging
money, intellectual property and other rights and assets without the
involvement of traditional intermediaries like banks, utility companies
and governments.

{: .notice--info}
:bulb: *Blockchain and distributed ledger technology might represent a second era of the internet or the Digital Age. For the last 40 years, we've had the internet of information; now, with blockchain and distributed ledger technology, we're getting the internet of value.*

## Distributed Ledger Technology

Blockchain is the ingeniously simple, revolutionary protocol that allows
transactions to be simultaneously anonymous and secure by maintaining a
tamper-proof public ledger of value. Though its the technology that
drives Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, the underlying framework has
the potential to go far beyond. It has real utility and can record
virtually everything of value to humankind, from birth and death
certificates to land keeping records and even votes. Blockchain is a
specific type of distributed ledger. It is designed to record
transactions or digital interactions and bring much-needed transparency,
efficiency, and added security to businesses. But these two technologies
are not the same; blockchain is just the tip of the proverbial iceberg.

>
*"The technology likely to have the greatest impact on the future of the world economy has arrived, and it is not self-driving cars, solar energy or artificial intelligence. Its called the blockchain and it is here to stay."*<br> --**Tapscott, Don**


## A Paradigm Shift

The fact that the blockchain and distributed ledger technology is
causing a paradigm shift in the financial services industry is
undeniable. Where governments and financial institutions now have the
power, peer-to-peer distributed cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin provide
us with a potential tool to escape the fiat currency system and enables
peer-to-peer exchange of value.

Blockchain poses a threat to governments and financial institutions
whose business models are based on the roles of intermediaries and their
power to control and influence people's behaviour. It is hard to imagine
that banks and financial institutions might disappear entirely simply
because they have much influence and are usually labelled as . More
likely is the fact that traditional legacy infrastructure will have to
keep up with these innovations and will adopt their versions of it.
There will be centralised and decentralised systems operating next to
each other. Both with their pros and cons. Most likely, it will be a
combination of both, until decentralised systems and networks are
capable of completely replacing our current centralised infrastructure
without losing any of its core capabilities.

## Legacy financial infrastructures

Blockchain poses a threat to governments and financial institutions
whose business models are based on the roles of intermediaries and their
power to control and influence people's behaviour. It is hard to imagine
that banks and financial institutions might disappear entirely simply
because they have much influence and are usually labelled as . More
likely is the fact that traditional legacy infrastructure will have to
keep up with these innovations and will adopt their versions of it.
There will be centralised and decentralised systems operating next to
each other. Both with their pros and cons. Most likely, it will be a
combination of both, until decentralised systems and networks are
capable of completely replacing our current centralised infrastructure
without losing any of its core capabilities.

## Bitcoin

Bitcoin started it all, genuine person to person (peer-to-peer) digital
currencies that do not belong to, are not controlled by, any state or
any corporation. What is unique about Bitcoin is that it represents the
open blockchain, the blockchain that offers censorship resistance, open
access and innovation without permission. This engine creates an
explosion of innovative potential.

>
*"Bitcoin is the first borderless, transnational, open system of ac-
cess for financial payments and trust that enables innovation with-
out permission, with high resistance to censorship, coercion and
political manipulation. Bitcoin is a mathematical proof system that
is fundamentally neutral to participants. It exhibits a principle that
on the internet, we call net neutrality and brings that to finance.
Which of course terrifies some groups of people, because what about
authority."<br> --**Antonopoulos, Andreas**

## Impact of blockchain and crypto in general

What the internet did for communication, open blockchain is doing for finance. It is introducing a fundamentally different, network-centric, and flat system that allows us to perform transactions without the permission of authority and intermediaries. Bitcoin derives trust from the collaboration and computation of thousands of nodes and it uses a blockchain. The open blockchain and other open source projects will change the world. We cannot predict that this will be the only open blockchain that matters, nor that it will be the dominant one. The first car that we invented is not the car we have today. Why? Because it was not the best car, and it was the beginning of the automobile industry, which took time to develop the technology further. However, with technology, the best technology does not always necessarily win. So far, it is the only open blockchain, that operates on the public internet, that is tested on such a big scale, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and it survives. 

[^1]: *Watch the internet as it grows in real-time.* \[20-10-2018\]
    <http://www.internetlivestats.com>
