---
title: "Cryptocurrency Exchanges"
subtitle: 
excerpt: "What are cryptocurrency exchanges and how do they differ? Let's look at the different exchange types and their
characteristics in more detail and provide a selection of several cryptocurrency exchanges."
---

## What are cryptocurrency exchanges

A cryptocurrency exchange is a marketplace where you can buy, sell or
exchange cryptocurrencies for other digital cryptocurrencies and
traditional (digital) currencies like US dollars or Euros. 

If you want to trade professionally and have access to fancy trading tools, you will
likely need to use an exchange that requires you to verify your ID and
open an account (known as the *Know Your Customer* protocol). 

If you want to make the occasional, straightforward trade, there are also
platforms that you can use that do not require an account. There are
four different types of cryptocurrency exchanges that you can use to
trade and buy coins. Understanding the differences between the exchanges
is the essential first step to choosing the best cryptocurrency exchange
for you. But before this, an important aspect of exchanges and trading,
in general, will be discussed.

1.  Broker Exchanges
    ([1.6](#subsec:broker_exchange))
    -   Mostly centralized and primarily used to buy crypto with fiat
        currency.
2.  Trading Exchanges
    ([1.7](#subsec:trading_exchange))
    -   Can be both centralized or decentralized and is primarily used
        to trade crypto to crypto.
    -   Nowadays, some trading exchanges enable you to buy crypto
        directly using traditional payment methods such as credit cards
        and PayPal.

## Convert your FIAT into cryptocurrency

Once registered on an exchange that allows for currency deposits, you
can start to engage the market. You now have a host of different options
available, depending on the available trading pairs for the currency you
deposited. Depending on your country and the currency you're using - you
will most likely end up using a broker exchange that operates either
internationally and offers multiple currency trading pairs or a local
one that also deals in your currency. Trading pairs that you will find
almost everywhere would be Bitcoin and Ethereum (USD/BTC, USD/ETH,
EUR/BTC, and EUR/ETH). Have a look at the trading pairs available for
your currency at your broker exchange. You can deposit money on your
exchange account in multiple ways (depending on your provider). You
might be able to use bank deposits (SEPA), credit cards or perhaps even
services like PayPal.

As mentioned before, not all types of exchanges accept fiat currency
deposits (broker exchanges only); some exchanges only allow you to
deposit cryptocurrencies to exchange other alternative coins (trading
exchanges). Today, Bitcoin is still one of the most popular
cryptocurrencies, and all exchanges offer Bitcoin. Therefore, you can
consider it as one of the best gateways for purchasing other coins. In
other words, if you want to buy any other cryptocurrencies, you must
look at the trading pairs available and do the following:

1.  Open a (domestic) cryptocurrency broker exchange account (in your
    country) and verify your account via the \"Know Your Customer\"
    (KYC) protocol if required. Please refer to
    [1.6](#subsec:broker_exchange) for more information on broker
    exchanges.

2.  Deposit funds from your bank account to your broker crypto exchange
    account so you can buy Bitcoin, Ethereum or another coin that has
    high liquidity and offers multiple trading pairs.

3.  Open a trading exchange account that offers a variety of other
    cryptocurrencies. Usually, these exchanges do not accept fiat
    deposits and only allow crypto to crypto trading, withdrawals and
    deposits. Please refer to
    [1.7](#subsec:trading_exchange) for more information on trading
    exchanges.

4.  After verifying your account, transfer the cryptocurrency that
    you've bought from your broker exchange to your new trading
    exchange, and you can start trading. If you don't know how to
    transfer your freshly purchased coins out of your accounts, please
    refer to [the section on wallets](/cryptomanual/wallets), where we discuss wallets and transactions.

## Demand & supply (market liquidity)

Cryptocurrency exchanges, like all exchanges, have to deal with
(il)liquidity. The cryptocurrency market itself is highly volatile and
contains many relatively liquid (high market capitalization and trade
volume) but also plenty of illiquid (hard to sell quickly due to a lack
of ready and willing buyers) cryptocurrencies.

Liquidity describes the extent to which an asset or security can be
quickly bought or sold in the market without affecting the asset price.
Liquid assets are relatively easy to buy and sell, and the majority of
people and businesses accept liquid assets as a means of payment.


{: .notice--info}
:dollar:<br>***Liquid cash***<br>
The prime example of a liquid asset is cash. Everybody
accepts cash, and you can use cash almost anywhere in the world,
although when traveling internationally you might have to exchange your
cash currency for another currency based on your destination. The cash
markets are so liquid that there is little to no volatility and exchange
rates are generally very stable.


Keep in mind that this principle of liquidity and the relation to asset
price applies to any market and asset. Some more examples of fairly
liquid assets include stocks, bonds, and listed commodities, including
precious metals such as gold and silver. These liquid assets can be sold
almost instantaneously during regular market hours at fair value.

When choosing an exchange for buying and selling cryptocurrencies - take
into account the trade volume of your exchange and consider your entry
and exit strategy. Among others, look at the available options offered
by various exchanges, trading pairs, and possibilities to use fiat
currency. Bitcoin (BTC) dominates the market up to this day, but there
are plenty of other smaller projects competing for a position in the top
100.

There are thousands of cryptocurrency projects, but simultaneously,
there are numerous exchanges where all of these assets are sold, which
is part of the problem. Essentially, the exchanges are competing with
each other for liquidity in a relatively small market with relatively
low market capitalization.

## Exchange types {#sec:exchangetypes}

There are plenty of exchanges available which operate in your geographic
location. If you're interested in purchasing a particular project, coin
or token, you can use Nomics, CoinMarketCap or CoinGecko as a starting point. Here you navigate to the specific
asset or exchange, and you'll have access to a world of information relating to that coin. This overview is precious if you're looking
for popular exchanges, exchanges with high volume, exchanges that list
many coins or tokens or exchanges that have been around for years. In
short, we believe such aggregated sites are a perfect place to start
exploring.


**Platform**   | **URL** |
Nomics         | [nomics.com](https://nomics.com) |
CoinMarketCap  | [coinmarketcap.com](https://coinmarketcap.com) |
CoinGecko      | [coingecko.com](https://www.coingecko.com/en) |
CoinCheckup    | [coincheckup.com](https://coincheckup.com) |
CryptoCompare  | [cryptocompare.com](https://www.cryptocompare.com) |
CoinPaprika    | [coinpaprika.com](https://coinpaprika.com) |

## Centralized versus decentralized exchanges {#sec:centralizedvsdecentralized}

In the field of cryptocurrencies, exchanges are mainly divided into
decentralized exchanges and centralized exchanges. Leading exchanges
such as Binance, Coinbase, and Huobi are all of centralized nature,
which are challenged by problems of opaque trading rules, in-transparent
fund storage, and security. Decentralized exchanges hope to capitalize
on many of the security problems faced by centralized exchanges.
However, we conclude that decentralized exchanges - although very safe -
are not yet popular among the general public and need a higher level of
user-friendliness, especially liquidity, to attract more users.

In terms of the development of decentralized exchanges, inevitable
trade-offs still have to be made. However, this is
progressing and expected to change in the (near) future. You will likely
need to register at least one centralized broker exchange that allows
you to enter the market by depositing fiat currency. After making your
first deposit, you are ready for your first trade (purchase of digital
assets) and send your newly acquired assets to a decentralized or
centralized trading exchange as you deem fit.

**Decentralized**                   |   **Centralized** |
User controls funds                 |  Exchange controls funds |
Anonymous                           |  Not anonymous |
No hacks and server down-time       |  Hacks and server down-time possible |
Not (yet) user-friendly             |  Fairly user-friendly |
Low trading volume (illiquidity)    |  High volume (liquidity) |
Basic trading options and tools     |  Advanced options and tools |

### Decentralized exchanges (DEX)

A decentralized exchange or DEX is an exchange that allows you to trade
cryptocurrency with other people utilizing the blockchain directly.
Unlike a centralized exchange, you don't need a \"middleman\"; there is
no central authority or main server required to make a transaction. In
this sense, you could use it in the same way as a centralized exchange,
although they usually have a lower trade volume (fewer buyers and
sellers) and might be a little less user-friendly in terms of user
interface and user experience (UI/UX). However, the landscape is
changing rapidly as technology advances, and more and more DEXs emerge.

{: .notice--info}
:bank:<br>***You are the central bank***<br>
When you are not in control of your private keys and instead have your
funds stored in a hot wallet on a custodial exchange account (i.e.
Coinbase), you don't truly own your cryptocurrencies and thus run
additional and unnecessary risks. By converting fiat currency into
cryptocurrencies, you can store your assets in such a way that only you
can access them, you have full control at any time, without counterparty
risk.

>
Remember; **not your keys - not your crypto.**

### Centralized exchange (CEX)

Centralized exchanges are the weakest link in the cryptocurrency
community, and a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
Ironically, most existing digital currency exchanges built within the
cryptocurrency ecosystem are centralized, making them vulnerable in ways
our digital currencies are not. A centralized exchange such as Coinbase,
Kraken or Binance is run by a profit-oriented company that gets revenue
from their platform's fee structures. Both the access and exit points
into the current blockchain ecosystem require fees - all of which go to
the centralized exchanges that facilitate these services. The
counterparty risk and high fees are the main reasons why decentralized
exchanges are needed. In all honesty, it is worth mentioning that many
centralized exchanges can execute fiat currency to cryptocurrency
transactions while DEXs, on the other hand, are usually only able to
facilitate crypto to crypto transactions (for now). Signing up for an
exchange can be cumbersome due primarily to Know Your Customer (KYC),
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and other regulations when it comes to
interfacing with traditional financial infrastructures. We will go back
to this in our [chapter about cryptocurrency wallets](/cryptomanual/wallets).

## Broker exchanges {#subsec:broker_exchange}

A broker exchange allows you to buy crypto directly with your local
currency. In other words, with a broker exchange, you can effectively
convert your fiat currency for cryptocurrency or cash out your crypto
and convert it back to fiat currency. A broker exchange is required for
beginners and is your starting point if you don't have any
cryptocurrency assets in the game which you can trade.

### Coinbase (CEX)

[Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/join/51954a2b26a1bcc484000015) is,
without a doubt, one of the most well-known exchanges in the world.
Coinbase is one of the largest broker exchanges, very user-friendly but
charges relatively high fees. At Coinbase, you can buy and sell the most
well-known cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum by simply
registering, linking your bank account and making a deposit. You can
make deposits in almost all fiat currencies, provided that Coinbase is
operating in your country (check [Coinbase
support](https://support.coinbase.com/)). Once your account is credited,
you will receive a notification through email that you can now exchange
your freshly deposited fiat currency for the cryptocurrency of your
choice. Their website offers multiple web wallets in which you can store
and hold your coins. From here, you can send and receive payments,
deposit and withdraw (cash-out) to your bank account.


{: .notice--info}
:bulb:<br>
**TIP**: [Sign up with Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/join/51954a2b26a1bcc484000015) using
our affiliate link and receive a bonus of €8 worth of Bitcoin
on top of your first deposit of €100.

### Liquid (CEX)

[Liquid](https://www.liquid.com?affiliate=nUfQhVL4164547) is a unified,
globally-sourced trading platform that bridges the worlds of fiat and
crypto. A platform, which offers high liquidity through their , which
connects liquidity pools from exchanges around the world. They also
offer a wide range of fiat currency deposits and withdrawals, at very
low fees and are fully regulated with a very intuitive user interface
and user experience. Also, their native token QASH will provide you with
50% trading discounts, and you can stake (lend) your tokens to margin
traders on the platform to earn interest.

### Kraken (CEX)

[Kraken](https://www.kraken.com/) was founded in 2011 and is known as
one of the largest and oldest Bitcoin exchanges in the world. Kraken is
consistently named one of the best places to buy and sell crypto online
and has recently updated its website and UI/UX interfaces to appeal to a
larger audience.

  **Exchange**  |  **Type**        |  **UX/UI**     |  **URL**
  Coinbase      |  Broker          |  Beginner      | [https://www.coinbase.com/](https://www.coinbase.com/join/51954a2b26a1bcc484000015)
  KuCoin        |  Trading         |  Beginner      | [https://intro.kucoin.com/](https://www.kucoin.com/#/?r=aNuPeb)
  Binance       |  Trading         |  Beginner      | [https://www.binance.com/en/](https://www.binance.com/?ref=35602166)
  Liquid        |  Broker/Trading  |  Beginner      | [https://www.liquid.com/](https://www.liquid.com?affiliate=nUfQhVL4164547)
  Kraken        |  Broker/Trading  | Intermediate   | [https://www.kraken.com/](https://www.kraken.com)

## Trading exchanges {#subsec:trading_exchange}

This type of exchange is considered the \"traditional\" cryptocurrency
exchange. It allows you to trade cryptos for other cryptos. For example,
if you own Bitcoin and would like to own some Ethereum or other Altcoin,
you could sell some of your Bitcoin for something else, using a trading
exchange. A trading exchange could be a centralized CEX or
decentralized exchange DEX. We'll list a few in the sections below
and indicate if they're decentralized.

### Binance (CEX)

[Binance](https://www.binance.com/?ref=35602166) is one of the biggest
and most popular CEX with huge trade volume and an incredible amount of
token listings. It offers a referral program that provides commissions
over the trades executed by referrals. It doesn't, however, provide
dividends for token holders. Binance is, at the time of writing, a much
larger exchange (global 2^nd^) in terms of volume. Furthermore, it
offers many quality coins, has a very active and involved community and
provides many tools for trading. It devotes a considerable sum of its
budget to marketing and promotions; hence, it's not surprising that it's
one of the largest and fastest-growing exchanges with great potential
for the future.

### KuCoin (CEX)

[KuCoin](https://www.kucoin.com/#/?r=aNuPeb) is a relatively new player
in town which you can compare to Binance. Kucoin has trading incentives
in place, essentially sharing 90% of its trading fees with its users,
promoters and investors. It is a competitive new startup based in Hong
Kong, and it runs a sleek design, UI/UX interfaces, and an interesting
business model. KuCoin pays out its dividend bonuses daily to KuCoin
token holders.

{: .notice--info}
:bulb:<br>
**TIP**: KuCoin distributes daily dividend bonuses to KuCoin Shares (KCS)
holders. This dividend consists mostly out of the transaction fees of
that particular day and is divided proportionally over everyone with KCS
stored on the platform (in a custodial wallet).

### UniSwap (DEX)

[UniSwap](https://uniswap.org/) is by far the biggest decentralized exchange on the Ethereum network so far. If you are trading ERC-20 tokens, you *will* use UniSwap at some point in your crypto-journey.

### Kyber Network (DEX)

[Kyber Network](https://www.kyber.network) fills a gap in the existing
system of cryptocurrency exchanges with its decentralized nature and
instant trades. As the number of cryptocurrencies available grows, so
will the need for decentralized systems like this, of which Kyber is a
pioneer. As more features arrive, including support for arbitrary token
pairs, it will become even more helpful for those with cryptocurrency
investments.

## Swapping services

Cryptocurrency swap platforms such as Changelly and ShapeShift offer an
extremely convenient way of trading, with a strong focus on user
experience, design, and safety. You choose the crypto to sell and buy,
and you can instantly swap tokens and coins. As of recently, there are
no more fees on the ShapeShift platform, which is quite amazing.

***Changelly*** is an instant cryptocurrency exchange platform where you can quickly buy
and sell cryptocurrency. You can buy on Changelly using a traditional
bank account. Changelly offers competitive crypto-to-crypto rates and
supports over 140 cryptocurrencies.

***ShapeShift*** is the only cryptocurrency trading platform that offers
*zero-commission* crypto trading and where the private keys of the
trading account are in your control. ShapeShift allows users to purchase
crypto with fiat currency and efficiently manage, trade and sell their
crypto. Secure your crypto via a beautiful and straightforward
web-interface.

## Exchange registration

Signing up for an exchange is relatively straightforward. It is just
like registering for any other online service where you need to create
an online profile or account. Only now, you are registering for a
digital exchange, and you will deposit fiat currency and can start
buying and selling cryptocurrency. You must choose the right exchange,
so take some time to get familiar with the different types of exchanges,
their services, and the pros and cons. Please refer to
[1.4](#sec:exchangetypes) if you're unsure of the kind of exchange
you require. In many cases, you'll end up with multiple exchange
accounts at some point.

### Opening a broker account
1.  Open an exchange account and go through all the necessary steps to
    verify your account. For more information about the KnowYour
    Customer (KYC) protocol, refer to section 1.5.

2.  Deposit money from your bank account to your broker exchange
    account. Each exchange offers several ways to deposit money.

3.  The exchange notifies you as soon as the money has arrived. Now you
    can buy Bitcoin, Ethereum or any other cryptocurrency.


{: .notice--info}
:bulb:<br>
**TIP**: If you intend to purchase cryptocurrency as an investment, you do
not need to create an account directly on a trading exchange. Nowadays,
many broker exchanges offer quite a lot of trading pairs. If you can buy
your cryptocurrency instantly from a broker exchange, you can send it
directly to a (hardware) wallet - more about hardware wallets in
[our section about cryptocurrency wallets](/cryptomanual/wallets).

### Opening a trading account

1.  Open a trading exchange account at an exchange which offers a
    variety of other cryptocurrency trading pairs. Usually, these
    exchanges don't accept any fiat currency deposits. You have to send
    your crypto o this account from a broker exchange. 
2.  After the account is verified, you send the purchased cryptocurrency
    from the broker account to the trading account. You can then start
    trading.
3.  You can send a part of the purchased cryptocurrencies directly to
    the hardware wallet, to keep it safe. Please refer to chapter 2,
    where we discuss wallet and cryptocurrency trades further.

## Regulation of cryptocurrency exchanges

Globally, regulators and legislators want to ensure that cryptocurrency
exchanges apply both best security practices and measures against
criminal activities. These measures discourage illegal activities and
also improve the online security of central exchange accounts and the
associated cryptocurrency wallets.

1.  *Know Your Customer* (KYC)
2.  *Anti Money Laundering* (AML)
3.  *Combating the Financing of Terrorism* (CFT)

Knowing that these regulatory frameworks exist, and what they stand for
is essential. Everyone that wishes to participate in regulated
cryptocurrency trading and investing will have to prove their identity
when registering with an exchange.

### Know Your Customer (KYC) {#par:KYC}

KYC refers to a set of rules, procedures and processes that exchanges
use to identify their customers. When you deposit fiat currency to make
purchases and trades, you'll almost always have to verify your identity.
This verification can be done in different ways, depending on the
nationality and the chosen exchange. It often means that you'll need to
upload a photo of yourself with your ID, passport, driver's license or
other official documentation.

For low amounts of money, this may not be a requirement - and there is a
difference between broker and trading exchanges - but if you plan to
deposit and withdraw more substantial amounts of money regularly, you
may need to go through several verification stages. Access to a higher
level translates into uploading additional personal documents such as
bank statements or a rental agreement. This entire process is known as
KYC (Know Your Customer).

Exchanges usually require you to verify your identity. Verifying your
identity means you might have to upload a photo of yourself holding your
ID, paired with your personal information and bank account details if
you wish to deposit currency to start trading. For low amounts of money
or low volume trading, this might not be a requirement, and there is a
[difference between broker and trading exchanges](#sec:exchangetypes). If you intend to deposit and withdraw
more substantial sums of currency regularly, different stages of
verification might be required. Higher-level perks translate into
uploading personal documents such as bank statements, or driving
licenses, addresses and phone numbers (verifying your identity).
Completing different stages of KYC could provide you with more perks at
the exchange in question concerning maximum deposits, withdrawals, fees
and perhaps more. Please refer to the requirements of the centralized
exchange which you are interested in.

### Anti-Money Laundering (AML)

AML covers a range of procedures, laws and regulations designed to stop
illegal activities such as money laundering. Some of them include tax
evasion, market manipulation, misappropriation of public funds,
trafficking of illicit goods and other activities of this nature.

AML regulations require financial institutions to carry out ongoing due
diligence procedures to detect and prevent malicious activities.

### Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT)

CFT refers to the series of procedures aimed at investigating,
dissecting, discouraging and blocking sources of funding for activities
that may be linked to terrorism. This funding is then intended for
activities that achieve religious, ideological or political ends through
violence, or the threat thereof, against civilians. This set of CFT
procedures provides agencies with an alternative and potentially
effective way to detect and block terrorist activities in the financial
sector.

## *Best Practices* for crypto exchanges {#sec:importantconsiderations}

The Cryptomanual provides recommendations and highlights items of
importance when considering cryptocurrency exchanges. It is essential to
do a little homework before signing up for any exchange. There are a few
things you might want to check before making a decision.

### Reputation
The best way to find out about an exchange is to search through reviews
from individual users and well-known industry websites. You can ask any
questions you might have on official social media and community
platforms.


  **Exchange**   |**Type**         |**UX/UI**      |**URL**
  Coinbase       |Broker           |Beginner       |[coinbase.com](https://www.coinbase.com/join/51954a2b26a1bcc484000015)
  KuCoin         |Trading          |Beginner       |[kucoin.com](https://www.kucoin.com/#/?r=aNuPeb)
  Binance        |Trading          |Beginner       |[binance.com](https://www.binance.com/?ref=35602166)
  Liquid         |Broker/Trading   |Beginner       |[liquid.com](https://www.liquid.com?affiliate=nUfQhVL4164547)
  Kraken         |Broker/Trading   |Intermediate   |[kraken.com](https://www.kraken.com/)


### Trading pairs 

At the same time, you also look at what affects that trading volume,
such as the options in terms of available *trading pairs* such as
USD/BTC, USD/ETH, EUR/BTC and EUR/ETH. Bitcoin (BTC) has dominated the
cryptocurrency market to date, but there are plenty of other
cryptocurrencies - such as Ethereum - with huge trading volumes over 24
hour periods.

### Fees 

Most exchanges should have fee-related information on their websites.
Before joining, make sure you understand deposit, transaction and
withdrawal fees. Fees can differ substantially depending on the exchange
you use.

### Payment methods 

What payment methods are available on the exchange? Credit and debit
card? Wire transfer? PayPal? If an exchange has limited payment options,
then it may not be convenient for you to use it. Remember that
purchasing cryptocurrencies with a credit card will always require
identity verification and come with a premium price as there is a higher
risk of fraud and higher transaction and processing fees. Purchasing
cryptocurrency via wire transfer will take significantly longer as it
takes time for banks to process.

### Verification requirements 

The vast majority of the Bitcoin trading platforms both in the US and
the UK require some ID verification to make deposits & withdrawals. Some
exchanges will allow you to remain anonymous. Although verification,
which can take up to a few days, might seem like a pain, it protects the
exchange against all kinds of scams and money laundering.

### Geographical restrictions 

Some specific user functions o
ffered by exchanges are only accessible
from certain countries. Make sure the exchange you want to join allows
full access to all platform tools and services in the country in which
+you currently live.

### Exchange rates 

Different exchanges have different rates. You'll be surprised how much
you can save if you shop around. It is not uncommon for exchange rates
to fluctuate up to 10% and even higher in some instances.

### Converting FIAT into cryptocurrency 

Once registered on an exchange that allows for currency deposits, you
can start to engage the market. You now have a host of different options
available, depending on the available trading pairs for the currency you
deposited. Depending on your country and the currency you're using - you
will most likely end up using a broker exchange that operates either
internationally and offers multiple currency trading pairs or a local
one that also deals in your currency. 

Trading pairs that you will find almost everywhere would be Bitcoin and Ethereum (USD/BTC, USD/ETH,
EUR/BTC, and EUR/ETH). Have a look at the trading pairs available for
your currency at your broker exchange. 

You can deposit money on your exchange account in multiple ways (depending on your provider). You
might be able to use bank deposits (SEPA), credit cards or perhaps even
services like PayPal.

As mentioned before, not all types of exchanges accept fiat currency
deposits (broker exchanges only); some exchanges only allow you to
deposit cryptocurrencies to exchange other alternative coins (trading
exchanges). Today, Bitcoin is still one of the most popular
cryptocurrencies, and all exchanges offer Bitcoin. Therefore, you can
consider it as one of the best gateways for purchasing other coins. In
other words, if you want to buy any other cryptocurrencies, you must
look at the trading pairs available and do the following:

1.  Open a (domestic) cryptocurrency broker exchange account (in your
    country) and verify your account via the \"Know Your Customer\"
    (KYC) protocol if required. Please refer to
    [the section on broker exchanges](#subsec:broker_exchange) for more information on broker
    exchanges.

2.  Deposit funds from your bank account to your broker crypto exchange
    account so you can buy Bitcoin, Ethereum or another coin that has
    high liquidity and offers multiple trading pairs.

3.  Open a trading exchange account that offers a variety of other
    cryptocurrencies. Usually, these exchanges do not accept fiat
    deposits and only allow crypto to crypto trading, withdrawals and
    deposits. Please refer to
    [the section on trading exchanges](#subsec:trading_exchange) for more information on trading
    exchanges.

4.  After verifying your account, transfer the cryptocurrency that
    you've bought from your broker exchange to your new trading
    exchange, and you can start trading. If you don't know how to
    transfer your freshly purchased coins out of your accounts, please
    refer to [the section on cryptocurrency wallets](/cryptomanual/wallets/), where we discuss wallets and transactions.
