# HOW DO CRYPTOCURRENCY WALLETS WORK? {#ch:technical wallets}

Millions of people use cryptocurrency wallets, but there is a
considerable misunderstanding about how they work. Unlike traditional
wallets, digital wallets do not store any currency. Cryptocurrencies do
not get stored in any single location or exist anywhere in any physical
form. All there is are records of transactions stored on the blockchain.
Cryptocurrency wallets are software programs that work with public and
private key pairs. The wallets provide a user interface via which you
can monitor their recorded balance on the network and conduct
transactions. When a person sends you Bitcoin or any other type of
digital currency, they are permanently signing off ownership of the
coins linked to their wallet address, and once the transaction is
verified, the network records Bitcoins ownership on your address.

## Recovery or seed phrases

Anytime you set up a wallet; users are provided with a unique recovery
seed composed of anywhere from 12 to 24 randomized words (12 and 24
being most common). You are encouraged to write this recovery seed down
somewhere safe and never to post it online. Recovery seeds are
considered the most crucial aspect of maintaining the safety of your
cryptocurrencies. A recovery seed is your best friend when you lose your
paper, hardware, or mobile wallet, as its the only way you can recover
your funds and wallet. Many individuals skip writing down their recovery
seed code when setting up a wallet because they are too hasty. However,
to prevent total financial oblivion, it is crucial to record your
recovery seed somewhere safe. If you have not already made a backup of
your seed phrase, please do so now before you continue. If you ever lose
access to your wallet for whatever reasons, the seed phrase is what you
require to recover your lost funds.

## Cryptography

The field of cryptography is fundamental to many cryptocurrency systems
such as Bitcoin. Cryptography is the practice of secure communication in
the presence of third parties. In other words, cryptography allows for
data to be stored and communicated in such a way that third parties are
prevented from reading the contents. Cryptography is utilized in the
creation of public and private keys to make cryptocurrency systems a
secure network upon which users can safely operate.

The concept of ownership on a cryptocurrency system is primarily
comprised of three interconnected elements:

1.  **Public and private keys**

2.  **Public addresses (hashed public key)**

3.  **Digital signatures**

### Public and private keys

When dealing with cryptocurrency, users are given a public address and a
private key to send and receive coins or tokens. The public address is
where the funds are deposited and received. However, even though a user
has tokens deposited into his address, he won't be able to withdraw them
without the unique private key. The public address is generated by
hashing the public key. In turn, the public key is created from the
private key through a complicated mathematical algorithm (hashing).
However, it is near impossible to reverse the process by generating a
private key from a public key. This process is illustrated in
[\[flowchart:keys\]](#flowchart:keys){reference-type="ref"
reference="flowchart:keys"}.

## Public addresses

Your public address is essentially a secured cryptographic
representation of your public key. Think of this address as having a
mailbox with a specific string of numbers attached as an identifier and
only you can access it with your private key. Some examples of different
cryptocurrency public keys or addresses are listed in
[1.1](#tab:publickeys){reference-type="ref" reference="tab:publickeys"}.
Usually, these public addresses will have an automated copy button
available and will also be shown as a QR code so you can easily scan it
with a mobile device. Remember that for each public address you have
both a public and a private key that match it!

::: tcolorbox
[@Ethos3]
:::

::: {#tab:publickeys}
  **Name**   **Ticker**   **Public Address**
  ---------- ------------ --------------------------------------------
  Bitcoin    BTC          1FER7Ztb6JZoEnomLvacnqkfD1LHzMyi2G
  Ethereum   ETH          0xF8D519c05E11eFa9875Be9eF5DE4AB941de23350
  Ripple     XRP          rogue5HnPRSszD9CWGSUz8UGHMVwSSKF6

  : Public addresses of a few well-known cryptocurrencies.
:::

[]{#tab:publickeys label="tab:publickeys"}

### Digital signatures

Digital signatures play an important role in cryptocurrency systems
because they prove ownership of funds and allow the individual in
control of those funds to spend them. With Bitcoin, a digital signature
is effectively intended to serve three distinct purposes:

-   A digital signature serves as proof that the owner of a private key,
    who will by extension have ownership of his/her funds, has indeed
    authorized that those funds can be spent.

-   A digital signature serves as proof that the authorization is
    undeniable.

-   A digital signature proves that the transaction that has been
    authorized by the signature has not or cannot be modified by anyone
    after it has been signed.

## Transactions

You can safely send your coins from any exchange to any wallet by
withdrawing from one address and sending to another address. For
instance, you can own multiple wallets (one on your pc, one on your
mobile and a hardware wallet) which provide you with at least the same
amount of private keys, public keys and public addresses. You need your
private key to sign off on transactions. Hence it would be best if you
backed it up somewhere safe. If people somehow obtain your private key,
they will be able to access your funds, and your wallet is compromised.

When you want to send a transaction to another public address, you are
transferring ownership rights of assets linked to your wallets public
address to that of another public address, which is now only accessible
by the corresponding private key of that specific person. Thus, if you
somehow lose access to your private key, you will be unable to access
your funds. Always make sure to back up your private keys or passwords
that you have set up in multiple safe locations.

## Hashing versus encryption

Hashing is great for usage in any instance where you want to compare a
value with a stored value, but can't store its plain representation for
security reasons. Other use cases could be checking the last few digits
of a credit card match up with user input or comparing the hash of a
file you have with the hash of it stored in a database to make sure that
they're both the same.

::: tcolorbox
A hash is a string or number generated from a string of text. The
resulting string or number is a fixed length and will vary widely with
small variations in input. The best hashing algorithms are designed so
that it's impossible to turn a hash back into its original string.

1.  MD5 - MD5 is the most widely known hashing function. It produces a
    16-byte hash value, usually expressed as a 32 digit hexadecimal
    number. Recently a few vulnerabilities have been discovered in MD5,
    and rainbow tables have been published which allow people to reverse
    MD5 hashes made without good salts.

2.  SHA - There are three different SHA algorithms -- SHA-0, SHA-1, and
    SHA-2. SHA-0 is very rarely used, as it has contained an error which
    was fixed with SHA-1. SHA-1 is the most commonly used SHA algorithm
    and produces a 20-byte hash value.

3.  SHA-2 consists of a set of 6 hashing algorithms and is considered
    the strongest. SHA-256 or above is recommended for situations where
    security is vital. SHA-256 produces 32-byte hash values.
:::

Encryption should only ever be used over hashing when it is a necessity
to decrypt the resulting message. For example, if you were trying to
send secure messages to someone on the other side of the world, you
would need to use encryption rather than hashing, as the message is no
use to the receiver if they cannot decrypt it.

::: tcolorbox
Encryption turns data into a series of unreadable characters, that
aren't of a fixed length. The key difference between encryption and
hashing is that encrypted strings can be reversed back into their
original decrypted form if you have the right key.

1.  AES - AES is the \"gold standard\" when it comes to symmetric key
    encryption, and is recommended for most use cases, with a key size
    of 256 bits. Learn more about AES.

2.  PGP - PGP is the most popular public-key encryption algorithm. Learn
    more about PGP.
:::
