---
title: "Wallets"
excerpt: "Store all of your crypto assets safely by using personal (hardware) wallets."
---

# Cryptocurrency Wallets {#ch:wallets}

Traditionally, you hold your cash in your wallet or banks store your
fiat currency in an account in your name. The consensus is that you have
access and can withdraw your currency at any time. In theory, this might
sound correct, but the bank doesn't necessarily have your money. By
converting fiat currency into cryptocurrencies, you can store your
assets in such a way that only you can access them, you have full
control at any time, without counterparty risk, because you do not
depend on anyone to get access.

> ::: flushright
> --- **Simon Dixon**
> :::

![image](illustrations/resized_CRYPTO_KEY_1_PART_3.jpg){width="\\textwidth"}

## What are cryptocurrency wallets {#cryptocurrency-wallets}

Cryptocurrency wallets are software programs that enable us to interface
with the network (blockchain) to keep track of our transactions and
assets. You can compare a cryptocurrency wallet with your bank account,
a mailbox or an email address. You can interact with each of them if you
have the required proof (respectively identity, key or password). If you
want to own and use Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency, you will need
to have a wallet that supports the specific coin or token.

::: cryptobox
**PLAY ON THE BLOCKCHAIN**

[^1]
:::

## Different wallet types

There are several types of wallets that provide different ways to store
and access your digital currency. Wallets can be broken down into three
distinct categories: software, hardware, and paper wallets. Software
wallets could function on a desktop, online or mobile device and
hardware wallets use software but fall in their category.

### Hot storage versus cold storage wallets

While you are reading about wallets, you might come across the terms
wallets and wallets. All the different types of cryptocurrency wallets
fall under either one of these two types. In general, anything that is
connected to the internet is less secure than something that is not.
This is the difference between hot and cold wallets, with
internet-connected wallets being hot and the other being cold. Online,
desktop and mobile wallets are hot wallets, while hardware and paper
wallets are cold wallets, also known as cold storage or hardware wallets
(specialized USB enabled devices). Some might say that hardware wallets
are prone to physical damage, loss or theft. However, the advantage is
that they are far less likely to fall victim to hacking.

### Software wallets

Software wallets can function on a desktop, online or on a mobile
device. Hardware wallets use their own software, although they fall
under the hardware category because they are run as specialized USB
devices.

#### Desktop wallets (hot)

These are downloaded and installed on a PC or laptop. They are only
accessible from the single computer on which they are downloaded.
Desktop wallets offer one of the highest levels of security; however, if
your computer is hacked or gets a virus, there is a possibility of
losing all your funds.

::: borderbox
![image](img/ch-wallets/atomic_wallet1.jpg){width="\\textwidth"}
:::

::: tipbox
**TIP** Dekstop (software) wallets support many cryptocurrencies and are
easy to use. Perfect for beginners. You can use [Atomic
Wallet](https://atomicwallet.io/) or [Exodus
Wallet](https://www.exodus.io/).
:::

#### Mobile wallets (hot)

These run on an app on your phone and are useful because they can be
used anywhere, including retail stores. Mobile wallets are usually much
smaller and simpler than desktop wallets because of the limited space
available on a mobile.

#### Web wallets or online wallets (hot++)

Online wallets are the most notorious of all because you don't own your
private keys. Exchange wallets are a prime example. Online wallets are
accessible from any computing device and any location. While they are
more convenient to access, online wallets store your private keys
online, and if an exchange hosts the wallet, your keys are controlled by
a (custodial) third party with centralized storage which makes them a
huge target. These parties (usually large exchanges) are more prone and
vulnerable to hacking and theft which is not uncommon as there is plenty
of information available on the loss of user funds due to large scale
security compromises. These were online \"hot\" exchange wallets where
the user doesn't own his or her funds since he or she does not own the
private keys.

##### Hosted wallets (custodial)

The most notorious web wallets are the wallets that are managed by the
various exchange platforms in a so-called *online exchange wallet*. With
these wallets, the user is not in possession of his or her private keys
and the exchanges manage these for their users. Exchange account holders
can log into their accounts with username and password combination,
which are linked to the private keys of their stored cryptocurrency.

##### Non-hosted wallets

Examples of non-hosted wallets are
[MyEtherWallet](https://www.myetherwallet.com) and
[MetaMask](https://www.metamask.io). Both enable users to fully control
the cryptocurrencies themselves and are easy to manage and operate.

::: borderbox
![image](img/ch-wallets/metamask.png){width="\\textwidth"}
:::

### Hardware wallets (cold)

These differ from software wallets in that they store a user's private
keys on a hardware device like a USB. Although hardware wallets make
transactions online, they are stored offline, which delivers increased
security. Hardware wallets can be compatible with several web interfaces
and can support different cryptocurrencies; it just depends on which one
you decide to use. What's more, making a transaction is easy. Users plug
in their device to any internet-enabled computer or device, enter a pin,
send currency and confirm. Hardware wallets make it possible to easily
transact while also keeping your money offline and away from danger.

::: tipbox
**TIP** Hardware wallets store the private keys in a protected
environment of the USB-device and the keys cannot be exported as text.
In addition, hardware wallets are immune to computer viruses. For
ultimate security, consider using a
[Ledger](https://shop.ledger.com/pages/ledger-nano-x?r=1849e3ffabd0)
Hardware wallet.
:::

### Paper wallets (cold)

These are easy to use and provide a very high level of security. While
the term paper wallet can refer to a physical copy or printout of your
public and private keys, it can also refer to a piece of software that
is used to generate a pair of keys, which are then printed securely.
Using a paper wallet is relatively straightforward. Transferring Bitcoin
or any other currency to your paper wallet is accomplished by the
transfer of funds from your software wallet to the public address shown
on your paper wallet. Alternatively, if you want to withdraw or spend
currency, all you need to do is transfer funds from your paper wallet to
your software wallet. This process, often referred to as 'sweeping', can
either be done manually by entering your private keys or by scanning the
QR code on the paper wallet.

::: borderbox
![image](img/ch-wallets/paper-wallet-bitcoin.jpg){width="\\textwidth"}
:::

::: tipbox
**TIP** Use a cold wallet (hardware) to safely store the bulk of your
crypto. Hot wallets (mobile, desktop or online) for that allocation of
your portfolio with which you actively place buy and sell orders.
:::

## Important wallet considerations

It is always a good idea to reduce potential risks by spreading around
your assets if you have a lot of them. Take some digital 'cash' with you
on a mobile wallet and keep the rest safe in (multiple) other locations.
Don't keep all of your wealth in one place.

### Risk of storing crypto on exchanges

Security is a hot topic and a huge issue in the crypto environment and
should never be taken lightly. On many centralized exchanges, you are
not in control of your private key. Instead, exchanges let you log-in
with a username and password combination. This implies that you do not
truly own your assets, as the exchange \"custodians\" hold your private
keys. Not owning your private keys means that you do not have full
control over your funds.

Everyone knows exchanges are subject to attacks from malicious parties,
trying to gain access to the funds of all users and the exchange
reserves. For example, you sign up with an exchange, create an account
protected with a password ( and 2FA) and the exchange gets hacked or
otherwise compromised; you might well lose your investments since the
hackers now have access to the private keys of registered users of the
exchange. Now the exchange functions precisely the same as a regular
bank.

> ::: flushright
> --- **proofofkeys.com**
> :::

### Security and technical complexity

Keep in mind that a safer and more secure wallet adds more layers of
technological sophistication. This complexity, in itself, imposes
additional risks if you do not know precisely what you are doing. It is
a lot easier to run a wallet on your mobile phone or desktop with a
simple PIN or password, then it is to run dedicated cold storage or
multi-signature wallet. People who overextend (because they aim for
higher security) might just as well lose their funds because they
underperform on execution and handling of these more complicated
systems. Assessing what an acceptable level of risk for your specific
situation and circumstances is based on your commitment and invested
funds.

### Which wallet is best for me? {#which-wallet-is-best-for-me .unnumbered}

There are a lot of different wallets available and more diverse and
advanced wallets are being launched frequently. Before selecting a
wallet, you should think carefully about how you intend to use it. Do
you need a wallet for everyday purchases, or do you need a wallet where
you can actively trade? Should you also have a dedicated wallet that
functions as an offline vault for your long term investments? Are you
planning on using a host of cryptocurrencies, or only Bitcoin? Do you
require access to your digital wallet from multiple devices or just your
mobile phone?

::: tipbox
**TIP** Take the time to assess your requirements and only then decide
on the most suitable wallet(s) for you. You cannot go wrong with the
wallets we recommend, with which you will have a complete cryptocurrency
set-up.
:::

## Combinations of cryptocurrency wallets

In general, try to reduce potential risks by spreading around your
assets if you have a considerable amount invested. When you diversify,
you aim to manage your risk by spreading out your funds. You can, of
course, expand and diversify both within and among different asset
classes. But when it comes to cryptocurrencies, you can take any number
of assets with you on a mobile wallet and store the rest safely on
(multiple) other locations. For instance, you would have registered at
one broker exchange (to convert your fiat to crypto) and at another
trading exchange (where you trade crypto to crypto). You might also have
a dedicated hardware wallet to store the majority of your assets offline
and have a small portion on a wallet on your phone to be able to take
with you for easy access and liquidity purposes. Take some time to
assess your requirements and only then decide on the most suitable
wallet(s) for you.

::: tabular
llll

**Wallet** & **Support** & **Platform** & **URL**\

Ledger & multi & hardware &
[ledger.com](https://shop.ledger.com/pages/ledger-nano-x?r=1849e3ffabd0)\
KeepKey & multi & hardware & [shapeshift.io](http://lddy.no/aczp)\
Trezor & multi & hardware &
[trezor.io](https://shop.trezor.io/?offer_id=10&aff_id=3118)\
Electrum & BTC & desktop & [electrum.org](https://electrum.org/#home)\
Atomic & multi & desktop & [atomicwallet.io](https://atomicwallet.io/)\
MEW & ETH & web & [myetherwallet.com](https://www.myetherwallet.com/)\
MetaMask & ETH & web & [metamask.io](https://metamask.io/)\
Exodus & multi & desktop & [exodus.io](https://exodus.io/)\
Ethos & multi & mobiel &
[ethos.io](https://www.ethos.io/universal-wallet/)\
Abra & multi & mobiel & [abra.com](https://www.abra.com/)\
Edge & multi & mobiel & [edge.app](https://edge.app/)\
Changelly & multi & web & [changelly.com](https://changelly.com/)\
ShapeShift & multi & web &
[shapeshift.com](https://shapeshift.com/#top)\
:::

[]{#tab:walletoverview label="tab:walletoverview"}

[^1]: Ethos (2018); [What are Cryptocurrency Wallets, Private Keys and
    Addresses](https://www.ethos.io/what-are-cryptocurrency-wallet-private-keys-addresses/).
